# DRS1V4.5.wad by AnguirusFan1

## General Feedback
- I would say MAP04 is so far the weakest of the four maps. A lot of the skill in pacing and detailing present in the first three maps is absent here. I would recommend spending some time fleshing out, tuning, and polishing the four existing maps before continuing on. That said, across the four maps there is a very clear journey the player is taking progressing from the mountain, through the city, the sewers, and into the base with the hell infestation getting more prevalent as they go. This is EXTREMELY well done!! I am eagerly looking forward to continuing this story, but again would recommend taking a step back and solidifying what is already here first.
- Also, I would recommend at this point adding a UMAPINFO to give the levels custom titles. You'll need to do this anyway to handle the MAP04 secret exit. Giving the levels names and using https://c.eev.ee/doom-text-generator/ to make custom level title graphics would add a nice flare to the presentation.
- I haven't mentioned it before, but there hasn't been much if any lighting variation throughout these levels. The default light level is mostly fine and you don't need to do anything extreme, but subtle uses here and there would really make things pop. Slight glowing on the lava or maybe intestine floors, light being brighter near torches and falling off with distance, etc.
- I've also only played this on UV, so I don't know if difficulty levels have been implemented but I would suggest doing that too.
- Right now I would consider these to be fairly easy levels. They feel very Doom 1/early Doom 2-esque. They are a laid-back, breezy, casual experience. Personally, I like this level of difficulty, but just wanted to call it out in case you are targetting something heavier or more intense.
- It would be worthwhile to do a texture alignment pass throughout. I noticed numerous places with textures misaligned both vertically and horizontally. This can be fine for secrets (the secrets in MAP02 in particular use misaligned textures very effectively), but otherwise you'll want to fix them. I generally don't find it too distracting while playing, but cleaning it up makes the levels look much more polished.

## MAP01
- AWESOME job with rearranging the walls in the opening area to have some depth. It looks great!
- You can open the wall to get the red key early if you know about it, and this opens all the extra monster closets throughout the opening area early too. This is really cool actually! But if you go through the area past the red key doors backward, you come to a door that doesn't open from the backside. I love that there isn't a hint that you can kind of sequence break a little here, and that it's totally intentional (since the closets all open up), but make sure you can open that door from the back in case the player actually does it.
- Two soul spheres next to the map is a bit much. If a player is above about 50% health or so, a good chunk of at least one of them is wasted and since you need a rad suit to get here without taking damage, it's unlikely the player is going to come back here later. This is also a very hefty reward just for exploration.
- You pick up keycards throughout the map, but all the doors are marked with skull indicators. Not a huge deal, but might consider replacing the keycards with skull keys, or replacing the skull strips with colored tech strips so they match the keys.
- The yellow skull pedestal is pretty cool, especially next to the red pedestals.
- You show the yellow door near the beginning, and then you find the yellow skull later. This is great! But it's even more important now to make sure there's a teleporter back from the city area since the player is likely to go that way before backtracking so they'll pick up the yellow skull and then not be able to use it.
- Using the yellow door to block off that hell area until the end of the map is a clever way to hide the hell infestation until the player has gotten some time to experience what normal is. I like it, but I'm not sure if the rewards in there justify backtracking through the whole level (especially if the player had to re-play or load since they progressed past the teleport the first time).
- I kind of liked teleporting into the bedroom a little better. I think the hallway and exterior are revealed better coming from that direction. The new alcove feels unnecessary.
- Not sure if I mentioned this previously but make sure to use exit signs to indicate the end of the level. Having the switch in the road is fine (a door and dedicated exit room wouldn't really make sense here) but it's not clear that it's the level exit.

## MAP02
- Still seems like there is no way to get the chaingun in the courtyard?
- You give a rocket launcher in the first secret, but then also give one when you enter the warehouse. Feels a little redundant. I liked it much better when the secret held the chainsaw.
- I felt like I had too many rockets for the warehouse fight (it was too easy), maybe because of the extras I picked up in the secret? I'm not sure since I didn't feel that way last time I played through. I think the current design of the fight is good - I wouldn't add more enemies - but maybe scale back the number of rockets the player has at this point.
- As always, love the elevator! I'm not sure if it's possible, but be careful that the enemies can't break them. I tested this a bit and it seemed like if the enemies were in a position to block the elevator they got pushed either in or out and the elevator still operated appropriately, but it's worth really focusing on playtesting this. It would be terrible if the elevator got stuck halfway or something and softlocked the player.
- I mentioned this before, but the exit uses the exit door texture as a switch. It should be a door to a room with the exit switch inside. Using the door texture as a switch is very jarring and unexpected.

## MAP03
- The area with the chaingunner is still kind of weird, though since the yellow key isn't there anymore it feels like less of a problem.
- The new yellow key area is nice.
- You might consider using sound-blocking linedefs instead of the ambush flag to control encounters here. Most of the groups of enemies, I would shoot them and trigger the encounter, but there would be a single guy around the corner closest to me that wouldn't wake up until I ran past. It felt a little strange.
- In the room with the blue key door, when the enemies wake up they get stuck on the chairs and will not attack the player.
- The door left of the blue key door is now open and is an elevator, but you don't seem to be able to use it. If this is just for atmosphere, maybe do something to indicate it's broken? A partially open door and flickering lights might work. If you let the player get into the elevator, maybe having green and red switches next to each other (instead of both red) would indicate that better? Not sure. It just feels strange that you can go in there and see there's switches, but can't flip them.
- Letting the blue key elevator go up and down is great, but the up switch is S1 so if you go back down, you can't go up again. Make sure it's SR.
- Again, don't use the exit door as a switch.

## MAP04
- The friendly marines are tricky. Friendly monsters are an unusual concept to begin with, so I imagine most players are going to mow them down and not realize they are friendly to begin with (I certainly did, and didn't notice they were friendly until I revisited the map later to check some things). They also block the player's movement and although they handle the monsters in that opening hallway fine, they then mostly bumble around that first room. They will eventually make it a bit further in, but the player will likely have dispatched any enemies long before they are able to help, and if the player hasn't they will be quickly decimated by the Hell Knights. I would probably suggest just dropping the friendly monsters concept entirely.
- The STARTAN is very jarring coming from the previous level. Use some other textures to help break it up.
- The hallways are very cramped. The narrow corridors in the previous levels felt fine, but now that I'm entering some kind of base or complex it feels like it should open up, so it continuing to be tight feels not great.
- The rooms here are all squares and lack detailing. In the previous levels it felt like a nice balance - very Doom 1/Doom 2-esque - but it feels like a big step down here.
- The red key room to the south feels very empty. Having the Hell Knight guard it is fine, but having the key just sitting on the floor in an otherwise empty box room feels strange. (I didn't know about the secret here until later, more on that below, but would still suggest making this room more interesting)
- There are two red keys for some reason. The north red key makes the south red key very redundant since there's nothing else to the south.
- Pairing a Hell Knight with a Spectre is a fine encounter, but it's the same encounter in 4 different rooms. Mix up the encounter designs either by varying the room layouts or changing the monster mix.
- Staying consistent with the intestine floor not damaging you is great!
- The subtle mix of intestine floor, tech floor, and brick floor in front of the red door is really cool!
- The curved walls just inside the red door have weird 90 degree corners of marble on the ceiling that isn't connected to the rest of the marble.
- The marble in the archvile room feels out of place against the rest of the brick. Otherwise this room looks good!
- The archvile encounter is a weird one. The archvile is so far back that the player can't reliably attack it, and the zombies prevent the player from running into the room (and take most of the players attacks if they do try to shoot in), but the archvile can target the player. This means the only real strategy is to back up around the curve and lob rockets or plasma into the room rather than going into the room and using the pillars as cover. I would maybe consider using a Baron or multiple Barons instead of an archvile here, or delaying the encounter until the player is in the room so they can use the layout of the room for the encounter rather than staying outside. If you want the player to dodge around the room though, make sure it's big enough. It would be a little cramped to try and weave between pillars while fighting as it is right now.
- Be careful with pacing. I was playing continuous so it wasn't a problem, but from a pistol start the player will have used most of their very limited ammo on the Hell Knights and will have nothing left for the archvile fight. You give the plasma rifle and a couple cell boxes to deal with this, and it gets the job done, but it feels weird just being plopped into the middle of the hallway and feels like a weird power curve as the player now only has the shotgun and the plasma rifle (which after the archvile room are probably both nearly out of ammo).
- The room with the cages and chaingunners looks great, but the chaingunners feel a little out of place in a very marble setting.
- The area with the revenants is a little hard to maneuver through, but not too bad. It does make effectively dodging their homing shots difficult though.
- The flow through this map feels very unsatisfying. In the previous maps, the player is mostly moving forward and making progress. The only place with a large amount of backtracking is getting the red key in MAP01, but more monsters are added into the map when you do so and most of the map is blocked off at that point, so it doesn't feel like you're backtracking. In this map, each branch has a door at the end that requires a key from the end of a different branch which means a LOT of backtracking. You are presented with the red door first. You go north and find the yellow door next to the red key. You backtrack to the red door and progress a bit. You find a blue door next to the yellow key. You backtrack back to the yellow door and progress a bit to get the blue key. Now you backtrack again (through the yellow AND red key areas) to get back to the blue door. This is a lot of back and forth, especially when the area with the blue key exists solely to give you the blue key. Nothing changes about the areas you're backtracking through either, so they feel repetitive, empty, and uninteresting.
- Consider encounter design in the blue key room. You are immediately faced with a Hell Knight on a ledge above you upon opening the door. The wall in front of you means you can't really get into the room so players are likely to stay in the entry hallway to clear the Hell Knight first. Meanwhile, all enemies in the room have woken up and are heading toward the player, which then get mowed down because the hallway acts as a choke point. Once the player clears all the enemies and is able to make their way into the room, it's now empty.
- The blue key room also feels like it wants to be a deathmatch arena or something, with corridors flanking the walls and the weaving area through the middle, but it's waaay too cramped to do that effectively.
- The friendly monsters in the outdoor area are strange. If you shoot one, they all start walking around, but still won't attack you.
- The secret elevator is completely unmarked and basically impossible to find.
- Both the normal and secret exits use the exit door texture as a switch.